# AIM 20-21

## Q1

### A

| Task | 5    | 2    | 3    | 1    | 4    |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Pj   | 2    | 6    | 5    | 10   | 4    |
| Cj   | 2    | 8    | 13   | 23   | 27   |
| dj   | 3    | 9    | 14   | 12   | 8    |
| Tj   | 0    | 0    | 0    | 11   | 19   |
| wj   | 3    | 10   | 5    | 5    | 1    |

**(i)**

$$
\Sigma w_j c_j = 6 + 80 + 65 + 115 + 27 = 293
$$

**(ii)**
$$
L_{\max} = L_4 = 19
$$
**(iii)**

2 tardy jobs, task 1 and task 4

### B

**(i) A3 is a hill climbing algorithm**

-   False
-   The boxplot cannot show which type of heuristic it is.

**(ii) The best performing algorithm is A7 on average for the instance**

-   True
-   A7 has the lowest value.

**(iii) The best solution in a single trial is achieved by the algorithm A6 for the instance**

-   False
-   The minimum value of bot plot is achieved by A8

**(iv) The algorithm A3 performs better than A4 and this performance difference is statistically significant for the instance**

-   True
-   The maximum fitness values of A3 is lower than the minimum fitness value of A4

**(v) The algorithm A6 performs slightly better than A4 on average for the instance**

-   False
-   The average value of A6 is a bit higher than A4

## Q2

### A

**(i)**

-   Start from a random node
-   Choose the nearest unvisited city as the next move
-   The algorithm terminates after choosing the last city

**(ii)**

-   1 - 3 - 5 - 2 - 4 - 1
    -   length = 22
-   3 - 1 - 4 - 2 - 5 - 3
    -   length = 22

### B

-   p1: 5 [ 3 1 2 ] 4 1 5
-   p2: 3 [ 4 9 2 ] 1 5 3

**Step1: copy segments into offsprings**

-   o1: x [ 3 1 2 ] x x x
-   o2: x [ 4 9 2 ] x x x

**Step 2: Starting from the 2nd cut point, find the same order of the parent**

-   p2': 1 5 3 3 4 9 2
-   p1': 4 1 5 5 3 1 2

**Step 3: Delete node that already existed in the offsprings**

-   p2': 5 3 4 9
-   p1': 1 5 5 3 1

**Step 4: Add into offspings**

-   o1: 9 3 1 2 5 3 4
-   o2: 3 4 9 2 1 5 5

###  C

Move acceptance of Simulated Annealing: $\triangle < 0$ or $random(0,1) < e ^ {-\triangle / T}$, where $\triangle = f_{new} - f_{old}$
$$
T \downarrow \ \Rightarrow \ - \frac{\triangle}{T} \downarrow \ \Rightarrow e^{- \frac{\triangle}{T}} \downarrow
$$
If T decreases, the possibility of accepting worsen solution decreases

**(i) $\alpha = 0.000001$**

$T = \alpha \cdot T$, T will rapidly decrease into 0, $e ^ {-\triangle / T}$ will rapidly decrease into 0, therefore in a very short time, no worse solutions will be accepted. The simulated annealing loses its functionality

**(ii) $\alpha = 0.975$**

$T = \alpha \cdot T$, T will slowly decrease into 0, $e ^ {-\triangle / T}$ will slowly decrease into 0, the probability of acceptance of worsening solutions decrease slowly as well.

**(iii) $\alpha = 1$**

$T = \alpha \cdot T$, and T remains the same all the time,  $e ^ {-\triangle / T}$ remains the same as well. The probability of acceptance of worsening solutions stays the same.

**(iv) $\alpha = 3$**

$T = \alpha \cdot T$, and T increases rapidly in every iteration,  $e ^ {-\triangle / T}$ increases rapidly as well and will gradually approaches 1. The probability of acceptance of worsening solutions increases in every iteration, and gradually the algorithm would accept every move since every worsening solution is accepted.

## Q3

### A

(i) $2^N$

(ii)

Yes. For any given solution, flipping every bit (that is to convert 0 into 1 and convert 1 into 0) will swap S and S'. This would create an equivalent solution while representation and objective function stays the same, since it doesn't really matter which set are S and which set are S'.

For example: {0, 1, 1, 0} and {1, 0, 0, 1} are equivalent.

### B

When all nodes are in S or all nodes in S'. f = 0, since there is no edge between S and S'

### C

**First Descent**

-   Flip v1:

    -   current: [1, 1, 1, 0, 0]

    -   candidate: [0, 1, 1, 0, 0]
    -   f_new = 4 = 4 = f_old
    -   reject

-   Flip v2:

    -   current: [1, 1, 1, 0, 0]

    -   candidate: [1, 0, 1, 0, 0]
    -   f_new = 6 > 4 = f_old
    -   accept

-   Flip v3:

    -   current: [1, 0, 1, 0, 0]

    -   candidate: [1, 0, 0, 0, 0]
    -   f_new = 3 < 6 = f_old
    -   reject

-   Flip v4:

    -   current: [1, 0, 1, 0, 0]

    -   candidate: [1, 0, 1, 1, 0]
    -   f_new = 5 < 6 = f_old
    -   reject

-   Flip v5:

    -   current: [1, 0, 1, 0, 0]

    -   candidate: [1, 0, 1, 0, 1]
    -   f_new = 6 = 6 = f_old
    -   reject

-   Best Solution: [1, 0, 1, 0, 0]

-   Best value: 6

**Best Descent**

-   Flip v1:
    -   current: [1, 1, 1, 0, 0]
    -   candidate: [0, 1, 1, 0, 0]
    -   best: [1, 1, 1, 0, 0]
    -   f_candidate = 4 = 4 = f_best
    -   reject
-   Flip v2:
    -   current: [1, 1, 1, 0, 0]
    -   candidate: [1, 0, 1, 0, 0]
    -   best: [1, 1, 1, 0, 0]
    -   f_candidate = 6 > 4 = f_best
    -   Accept
-   Flip v3:
    -   current: [1, 1, 1, 0, 0]
    -   candidate: [1, 1, 0, 0, 0]
    -   best: [1, 0, 1, 0, 0]
    -   f_candidate = 4 < 6 = f_best
    -   reject
-   Flip v4:
    -   current: [1, 1, 1, 0, 0]
    -   candidate: [1, 1, 1, 1, 0]
    -   best: [1, 0, 1, 0, 0]
    -   f_candidate = 4 < 6 = f_best
    -   reject
-   Flip v5:
    -   current: [1, 1, 1, 0, 0]
    -   candidate: [1, 1, 1, 0, 1]
    -   best: [1, 0, 1, 0, 0]
    -   f_candidate = 3 < 6 = f_best
    -   reject
-   Best solution: [1, 0, 1, 0, 0]
-   Best value: 6

## Q4

### A

-   chromosome length: 4M
-   representation: integer encoding. Each box has 4 bits of chromosome, <x, y, z, n>. X means the box number on the left of the box, Y means the box number in front the box, Z means the box number under the box, and n is the container number. The first four bit represents the first exam, the second four bit represents the second exam, etc. 
-   Initialisation, when initialising each solution, we divide it into M steps. For each step, we randomly choose one of the three heuristics c#0 c#1 c#2, apply it to get the current box and move to the next step.
-   Genetic operators
    -   Mutation: Exchange Mutaion, Insertion Mutation
    -   Crossover: Order crossover, 1 Point Crossover
-   Parent Selection: Roulette Wheel Selection
-   Replacement: Elitism
-   Termination: when maximum number of iteration is reached





















